# Proposal for Python Software Foundation: Support for Open Science Labs Incubated/Affiliated Projects: Makim and ASTx

Open Science Labs (OSL) actively supports and incubates projects that contribute
significantly to the open source ecosystem. Our community is dedicated to
enhancing the visibility and development of these projects, notably through our
Internship Program. This program not only offers mentoring but also aids in the
career development of its participants. Additionally, selected projects have the
opportunity to be featured in prestigious initiatives such as the Google Summer
of Code.

OSL also assists participants in securing funds to continue their contributions
to projects while advancing their professional growth.

This proposal seeks funding from the Python Software Foundation to accelerate
the development of two projects under the OSL Umbrella: Makim and ASTx. Through
this support, we aim to expand their impact and functionality, benefiting both
the Python community and the broader open source landscape.

## Makim

Makim is a versatile Python-based automation tool that simplifies project
management across various programming environments. It utilizes a YAML
configuration for easy setup and a Typer-powered command-line interface,
allowing users to manage interpreters, dependencies, and debugging tasks
efficiently. Makim supports multiple backends for code execution, including
Xonsh, which combines the best features of Bash and IPython to create a powerful
scripting environment. This compatibility across major operating systems like
Linux, macOS, and Windows (via WSL), alongside its ability to streamline DevOps
tasks and software development processes, makes Makim a handy tool for enhancing
productivity and simplifying complex workflows. For more information, please
check out its official documentation:
[Makim Documentation](https://osl-incubator.github.io/makim).

## ASTx

ASTx is a versatile framework designed to construct and represent Abstract
Syntax Trees (ASTs) in a language-agnostic manner. It provides a flexible
structure usable across various programming languages and parsing tools.
Although not a lexer or parser, ASTx integrates with any Python-written parser
to offer a high-level representation of ASTs. Within the ArxLang project,
particularly in the IRx library, ASTx serves as the input that is converted to
LLVM IR via llvmlite, and subsequently into binary code. The ArxLang team aims
for ASTx to be a useful tool for any Python-based compiler, enabling
straightforward representation of ASTs and seamless integration with IRx for
automatic compilation into binary code. For more information, please check out
its official documentation: [Makim Documentation](https://astx.arxlang.org).

## Form

- Contact

  - Legal First Name\*: Ivan

  - Legal Last Name \*: Ogasawara

  - Nickname: xmnlab

  - Email \*: ivan.ogasawara@gmail.com

- Address (selection)

  - City \*:

  - Country\*:

  - State/Province/Region:

  - Region Other:

  - Postal Code:

  - Postal Code Suffix:

  - Phone Number \*:

- Organization

  - Organization Name: Open Science Labs

  - Organization Email: team@opensciencelabs.org

  - Twitter Handle: @opensciencelabs

  - Website: https://opensciencelabs.org

  - Grant Type \*: Development work

  - Grant Title \*: Support for Open Science Labs Incubated/Affiliated Projects:
    Makim and ASTx.

- FAQ & Grants Program Info \*: I have read and understand these pages.

- Date \*: 01/10/2024

- Event’s/project’s website \*: https://opensciencelabs.org

- Requested Grant Amount (USD) \*: $2,340.00

- Grant Amount Breakdown \*: The money will be used for development work,
  maintenance, project management and review.

- Budget \*:
  https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1k0DV6nWafk4YvD73u5hXIKcdBnvJfuZ38QGgQstGDmo/edit?usp=sharing

- Objective \*:

  The primary objective of this grant proposal is to enhance the Makim project
  addressing key areas to improve its functionality, usability, and
  compatibility. The proposed enhancements aim to streamline the development
  process for Python projects by reducing technical debt and expanding platform
  support. The following objectives outline the specific goals to be achieved
  through this grant:

  1. **Functional Enhancements and Platform Support**:

     - Enhance the clarity and comprehensiveness of the Makim project
       documentation, adding a complete guide for the makim configuration file.
     - Introduce a matrix strategy for targets psf-grant-proposal to facilitate
       efficient testing and deployment across multiple environments.
     - Expand support for Windows platforms by transitioning from sh to native
       Windows command execution mechanisms.
     - Implement support for interactive arguments, enabling more dynamic and
       user-friendly interaction with Makim projects.
     - Introduce support for scheduling jobs with cron, enhancing automation
       capabilities and workflow management.

- Beneficiaries \*:

  With the support of this grant, the project will provide opportunities for
  skill development and community engagement, particularly for individuals
  involved in the project's development and maintenance. The beneficiaries of
  this grant include:

  1. **Developer**:

     The developer, Abhijeet, based in India, worked as an intern and remains
     committed to advancing the Makim project. Having previously contributed to
     Makim, Abhijeet aims to continue his involvement, dedicating approximately
     100-110 hours over the 12-week duration to further enhance the project's
     development and implementation.

  2. **Project Manager**:

     A dedicated project manager will oversee the coordination, scheduling, and
     resource allocation aspects of Makim's development. Their role is pivotal
     in ensuring smooth project execution and timely delivery of milestones. He
     will dedicate about 15 hours to the project over the duration.

  3. **Senior Developer (Review and Quality Assurance)**:

     The senior developer will focus on reviewing code contributions, ensuring
     adherence to project standards, and maintaining code quality. Their
     expertise in Python development and quality assurance practices will be
     invaluable in upholding Makim's integrity. He will dedicate 20 hours to the
     project over the duration.

  4. **Social Media Manager**: Mfonobong Uyah, as the Social Media Manager, will
     play a crucial role in enhancing Makim's online presence and community
     engagement. He will develop and implement strategies to promote project
     updates, engage with followers, and foster a vibrant online community. By
     dedicating around 20 hours to the project over the duration, Mfonobong will
     ensure consistent communication, highlight key milestones, and drive
     interest in Makim through various social media platforms.

  5. **Mentorship and Guidance**:

     Ivan Ogasawara, a key member of the Open Science Labs steering council,
     will provide mentorship for the grant. Ivan has experience in community
     engagement, project management, and served as chair for the SciPy Latin
     America 2016 conference. He is the founder of Open Science Labs,
     established in 2015, and has developed several open source Python
     libraries, including Makim. His work focuses on supporting open source
     projects and facilitating opportunities for new contributors through
     programs like the Incubator Program and Internship Program.

  6. **Fiscal Sponsor**: Makim is developed under the Open Science Labs
     Incubator Program. Consequently, funding for the Makim project is
     administratively managed through the Open Science Labs fiscal host,
     [Open Source Collective](https://opencollective.com/osl).

- Regional Support

  The remain funding would be used to maintain the template updated.

- Link to Code of Conduct \*: https://opensciencelabs.org/about/coc/

- Percentage of Python \*: 100%

- Follow-up activities \*:

  As a follow up activity, we plan to promote Makim and ASTx in conferences and
  events.
